## chmod Command

In Unix operating systems, the chmod command is used to change the access mode of a file. The name is an abbreviation of change mode. Which states that every file and directory has a set of permissions that control the permissions like who can read, write or execute the file. In this the permissions have three categories: read, write, and execute simultaneously represented by `r`, `w` and `x`. These letters combine together to form a specific permission for a group of users.

The `chmod` command is used to modify this permission so that it can grant or restrict access to directories and files. Let’s have a look at the syntax and options for the `chmod` command in Linux Operating System.

### Table of Content

Syntax of chmod command
Options Available in chmod Command Linux
Modes in chmod Command in Linux
Practical Implementaion of How to Make script executable in Linux
Frequently Asked Questions in “chmod” in Linux.

### Syntax of chmod command
chmod [options] [mode] [File_name] 
Here,

#### Options: Optional flags that modify the behavior of the chmod command.
Mode: The permissions to be set, represented by a three-digit octal number or symbolic notation (e.g., u=rw,go=rx).
File_name: The name of the file or directory for which the permissions are to be changed.
Options Available in chmod Command Linux
Options	Description
`-R`	Apply the permission change recursively to all the files and directories within the specified directory.
`-v`	It will display a message for each file that is processed. while indicating the permission change that was made.
`-c`	It works same as `-v` but in this case it only displays messages for files whose permission is changed.
`-f`	It helps in avoiding display of error messages.
`-h`	Change the permissions of symbolic links instead of the files they point to.
Note: Options in `chmod` are basically used for making changes in bulk and modifying permissions across multiple files or directories at once.

Modes in chmod Command in Linux
The “mode” helps in setting new permissions that have to be applied to files or directories.

This mode can be specified in several ways, we will discuss two modes: Symbolic and Octal mode. 

#### 1) Symbolic mode
If we talk about symbolic mode, we can say that it is the most common method used for specifying fir permissions. In this we have to make a combination of letters and operators to set or tell what to do with permissions.

The following operators can be used with the symbolic mode:

Operators	Definition
`+`	Add permissions
`-`	Remove permissions
`=`	Set the permissions to the specified values
The following letters that can be used in symbolic mode:

Letters	Definition
`r`	Read permission
`w`	Write permission
`x`	Execute permission
The following Reference that are used:

Reference	Class
u	Owner
g	Group
o	Others
a	All (owner,groups,others)
Examples of Using the Symbolic mode:
Read, write and execute permissions to the file owner:
chmod u+rwx [file_name]


Remove write permission for the group and others:
chmod go-w [file_name]


Read and write for Owner, and Read-only for the group and other:
chmod u+rw,go+r [file_name]


#### 2) Octal mode
It is also a method for specifying permissions. In this method we specify permission using three-digit number. Where..

 First digit specify the permission for Owner.
 Second digit specify the permission for Group. 
Third digit specify the permission for Others. The digits 
NOTE: The digits are calculated by adding the values of the individual permissions.

Value	Permission
4	Read Permission
2	Write Permission
1	Execute Permission
Examples of Using the Octal mode:
Suppose if we to give read and write permission to the file Owner. Read, write and executable permission to the Group. Read-only permission to the Other. They our command would be.

chmod 674 [file_name]


Here.

6 represent permission of file Owner which are (rw).
7 represent permission of Group which are (rwx).
4 represent permission of Other which is (r).
Practical Implementaion of How to Make script executable in Linux
Understanding Script Execution in Linux
In Linux, scripts are typically written in languages like Bash, Python, or Perl. While the script’s content is crucial, ensuring it has executable permissions is equally important. Without execution permissions, Linux won’t allow the script to run.

Step 1: Navigate to the Script’s Directory

Open the terminal and use the cd command to navigate to the directory where your script is located.

For example:

cd /path/to/your/script
Step 2: Check Current Permissions

Use the `ls` command with the `-l` option to list the files in the directory along with their permissions. This step helps you identify the current permissions of your script:

ls -l
checking current permission
checking current permission

Step 3: Make the Script Executable

To make a script executable, you need to use the `chmod` command. Assuming your script is named `example.sh`, you can make it executable with the following command:

chmod +x example.sh
This command adds the execute (+x) permission to the script.

Step 4: Verify Changes

Run the `ls -l` command again to verify that the script now has execute permissions. You should see an ‘x’ in the permission field for the script:

ls -l
verifying changes after making script executable
verifying changes after making script executable

Step 5: Execute the Script

Now that your script has executable permissions, you can run it using the `./` notation followed by the script’s name. For example:

./example.sh
execute the script
execute the script

This notation tells Linux to look in the current directory (.) for the script named example.sh.

---

## chown Command
Last Updated : 12 Jul, 2024
In the Linux operating system, file ownership is a crucial aspect of system security and user management. The `chown` command, short for “change owner,” is a powerful tool that allows users to change the owner of files and directories. This command is particularly useful in scenarios where administrators need to grant or revoke access to specific resources. In this article, we will explore the fundamentals of file ownership in Linux and delve into the usage of the chown command.

### Table of Content

Understanding User Ownership and Permissions in Linux
Types of file Permissions in Chown Command in Linux:  
Syntax of chown Command in Linux
Options available in `chown` command in Linux
Examples to Change File Ownership in Linux
Understanding User Ownership and Permissions in Linux
Different users in the operating system have ownership and permission to ensure that the files are secure and put restrictions on who can modify the contents of the files. In Linux, different users use the system:  

#### Root User: It is a superuser who has access to all the directories and files in our system and it can perform any operation. An important thing to note is that only the root user can perform changing of permissions or ownerships of the files that are not owned by them.
Regular User: These users have limited access to files and directories and can only modify the files that they own.
Each user has some properties associated with them, such as a user ID and a home directory. We can add users to a group to make the process of managing users easier. A group can have zero or more users. A specified user can be associated with a “default group”. It can also be a member of other groups on the system as well.

### Ownership and Permissions:
To protect and secure files and directories in Linux we use permissions to control what a user can do with a file or directory. Linux uses three types of permissions:  

#### Read: This permission allows the user to read files in directories, it lets the user read directories and subdirectories stored in it.
Write: This permission allows a user to modify and delete a file. Also, it allows a user to modify its contents (create, delete, and rename files in it) for the directories. Unless the execution permission is given to directories changes do affect them.
Execute This permission on a file allows it to get executed. For example, if we have a file named php.sh unless we don’t give it execute permission it won’t run.

### Types of file Permissions in Chown Command in Linux:  
There are three types of file permission in Chown Command in Linux discussed below.

#### User: This type of file permission affects the owner of the file.
Group: This type of file permission affects the group that owns the file. Instead of the group permissions, the user permissions will apply if the owner user is in this group.
Other: These types of file permissions affect all other users on the system.
Note: To view the permissions we use:  

ls -l  
chown command is used to change the file Owner or group. Whenever you want to change ownership, you can use the chown command. 

Syntax of chown Command in Linux
The chown command in Linux has the following syntax:

chown [options] new_owner[:new_group] file(s)
Here’s a breakdown of the components:

`chown`: The base command.
`options`: Optional flags that modify the behavior of the `chown` command.
`new_owner[:new_group]`: The new owner and optionally the new group. If `new_group` is omitted, only the owner is changed.
`file(s)`: The file or files for which ownership is to be changed.

### Options available in `chown` command in Linux
#### 1) Using `-c` Option in `chown` to Change File Ownership
The `-c` option in the `chown` command is utilized to report when a file change is made. This option is beneficial when you want to receive notifications about ownership alterations. The following example demonstrates its usage:

Example: 

chown -c master file1.txt
This command notifies you when the ownership of `file1.txt` is changed, providing valuable feedback for tracking modifications.


chown -c master file1.txt

#### 2) `Using `-v` Option in `chown` to Change File Ownership
The `-v` option enhances the verbosity of the `chown` command by showing detailed information for every processed file. This is particularly useful when you want a comprehensive log of ownership changes. The following example illustrates its application:

Example:

chown -v master file1.txt
By using this command, you get a verbose output, displaying information about each file processed during the ownership change.

chown -v master file1.txt
chown -v master file1.txt

#### 3) `-f` Option in `chown` to File Ownership in Linux. 
The `-f` option in the chown command serves to suppress most error messages and forcefully or silently change ownership, even when not permitted. This option is handy when you want to override restrictions without being interrupted by error notifications. Here’s an example:

chown -f master file1.txt
In this case, the command attempts to change ownership, and any error messages are suppressed, allowing for a more seamless execution.

### Examples to Change File Ownership in Linux
#### 1) How to File Ownership in Linux
To Change the owner of a file in Linux, you can use the following basic syntax:

chown owner_name file_name
For example:

chown master file1.txt
In this instance, the command designates the user “master” as the new owner of the file `file1.txt`. This is particularly useful when transferring ownership of files between users.

chown master file1.txt
chown master file1.txt

#### 2) How to Change the Group of the File in Linux
To change the group ownership of a file, utilize the following syntax:

chown :group1 file1.txt
In this scenario, the group “group1” is assigned as the new group for the file `file1.txt`. This operation is handy for managing access permissions within specific groups.

#### 3) How to Change Owner and Group of the File in Linux
For simultaneous change in both of the owner and group of a file, we use the following syntax:

chown master:group1 file1.txt




In this use case, the user “master” assumes ownership, and the group “group1” is assigned as the new group for the file file1.txt. This can be beneficial when restructuring file access hierarchies.

#### 4) How To Change Group Ownership
When the goal is to change only the group ownership of a file, we use this syntax:

chown :group1 file1.txt
This command exclusively alters the group ownership of file1.txt to “group1” from its previous state. It proves useful in scenarios where group permissions need to be modified independently.

chown :group1 file1.txt
chown :group1 file1.txt

You can see that the group permissions changed to group1 from root, if you use -v option it will report that. We just need to add a “:” to change group.

#### 5) How to Change Owner as well as Group
Again, taking master as user and group1 as a group in the system

chown master:group1 greek1
Here, greek1 is a file. 

chown master:group1 greek1
chown master:group1 greek1

#### 6) How to Change Owner from a Particular Ownership Only
To change ownership from a specific user (e.g., “master”) to another (e.g., “root”), where the current owner must be “master,” use the following syntax:

chown --from=master root greek1
This command ensures that ownership is changed from “master” to “root” only when the current owner is “master.” It adds an additional layer of control to ownership modifications.

chown --from=master root greek1
chown –from=master root greek1

#### 7) How to Change Group from a Particular Group
To change the group of a file (e.g., “group1” to “root”), use the following syntax:

chown --from=:group1 root greek1
This command specifically changes the group of greek1 from “group1” to “root.” It is useful when refining group associations.

chown --from=:group1 root greek1
chown –from=:group1 root greek1

Here, the group of greek1 is changed to root.

#### 8) How to Copy Ownership of One File to Another
To duplicate the ownership of one file (e.g., “greek1”) onto another file (e.g., “greek2”), use the following syntax:

chown --reference=greek1 greek2
This command copies the ownership details from “greek1” to “greek2,” ensuring consistency in ownership between the two files.

chown --reference=greek1 greek2
chown –reference=greek1 greek2

#### 9) How to Change Owner of Multiple Files
For simultaneous changes in the owner and group of multiple files, employ the following syntax:

chown master:group greek2 greek3 
In this instance, both “greek2” and “greek3” will have their owner set to “master” and their group set to “group.” This is useful for batch ownership modifications, streamlining the process for multiple files at once.

Conclusion
In this article we have discussed Linux user types, ownership, file permissions and examples of chown commands with options available in it. One must have a good understanding of `chown` command in Linux so he/she can manage the change in the file owner or groups, basically simplification in user management.

How to Change File Ownership in Linux | chown Command – FAQs
How to Change Ownership of a File in Linux?

To change the ownership of a file or directory in Linux, you use the chown command. The basic syntax is:


chown [new_owner]:[new_group] file_or_directory

new_owner: The username of the new owner you want to set.
new_group: The group name you want to assign to the file or directory. This is optional; if you only provide an owner, the group will not be changed unless you follow the owner’s name with a colon.

For example, to change the owner of file.txt to the user john, you would use:


chown john file.txt

To change both the owner and group of file.txt to john and admin respectively:


chown john:admin file.txt

#### How Do I Change My File Ownership?
To change your file ownership to another user, assuming you have the necessary permissions (usually as the root user or via sudo privileges), use the chown command as described above.


#### Which Command is Used to Change File Ownership?
The chown command is used to change file ownership. It can change the ownership of both files and directories.

#### What is chown in Linux Command?
chown stands for “change owner” and is used in Unix-like operating systems to change the ownership of files and directories. It can modify the owner and the group associated with files or directories.

#### What is the Meaning of 777 in Unix Permissions?
In Unix and Unix-like operating systems, 777 is a permission setting that grants all rights to the user, group, and others. Permissions in Unix are represented by three numbers:

The first digit represents the user’s permissions.
The second digit represents the permissions for the group.
The third digit represents the permissions for others (anyone else).

Each digit is a sum of values:

4 stands for “read”,
2 stands for “write”,
1 stands for “execute”.

So, 777 means:

Read, write, and execute permissions are granted to the user, group, and others.
This setting allows anyone to do anything with the file, which can be useful but poses a security risk.

Here’s how you might typically use chmod (change mode) to set this permission:

chmod 777 file.txt

---